---
author: kewne
tags:
- react
- frontend
---
Ok, where should I start?

First off, some basic decisions: I'll start with the frontend, as
most of the features I have in mind won't really need a backend.

I simply created a "Hello World" React app using JSX and went from there.
I'm picking React here because it's so widely used.

To start, I'm going to build the foundational feature of the app:
selecting exercises from a list and adding them to the workout.

# Showing a list of exercises

This begins by [showing a list of exercises](https://github.com/kewne/wod-builder/commit/9bc7301a01649d31b0a775bd911813a6ddc9079c), so I create a dummy variable and inject that into a basic react list.
It's pretty quick and is enough to verify the app setup is working.
I don't think  I'll ever even need to store the exercises in a  proper
datastore.

I'm also throwing everything into a single module on purpose because
there's so little right now.
This will most likely change soon.

> Looking at this after the fact, I realize I put the `ListItem`
as a separate top-level component when it might have been nested
inside `List`.
Nesting it seems like the correct thing to do because it's
still a single module but I'll probably move it to the top-level
again when the component gets its own module...

I'm also consciously using functional components because
I like to program in a functional style.
I might have to re-evaluate this to use some advanced features,
but we'll see.

Also noteworthy is the use of plain strings for representing
the exercises.
I don't usually do this and expect it to bite me sooner rather
than later.

# Building a workout using the exercise list

Just showing a list isn't much of an app:
to start, I want to at least be able to populate the workout list,
which is why I [do two other things](https://github.com/kewne/wod-builder/commit/bfff8cd23a6214a2ddbf7eb5389f05479d01a461):
1. I convert the exercise list items into buttons, so the user can click them;
2. I introduce a component for listing the workout's exercises.

I put both components in the main app component and add the `workout`
state variable so they can communicate.
An important thing I'm doing here is creating the `onSelect` handler prop
in the `ExercisePicker` component to allow for communication without coupling
the components.

> My usage of state was initially incorrect but it took me a while to
figure out the app didn't work because of that;
until that happened, I tried some random things, which is why
`ExerciseButton` contains that ridiculous no-arg `select` function...

I'm not too sure about the long expressions used to render the lists
but I decide to call it a day here.